hello everyone in today's video I'll be
showing you how to create a batch
processing script or After Effects using
extend script now this is what we're
going to be creating today it's a simple
little batch processor here with four
different functions the first of which
will change all compositions beginning
time codes to zero seconds the second
one will change every text layer in a
selected comp to some predefined values
predefined values being a predefined
font fill color stroke color and font
size the third function will apply a
predefined effect to every layer in a
selected comp which right now we have
setup to the black and white effect and
finally we have a scalar which will
multiply the scale of every layer in the
Select comp by a predefined percentage
so let's go ahead and take a look at how
it works we've got this comp here and
several other comps that don't start at
zero this one starts at 300 frames or 12
seconds this one starts at 14 hours so
go ahead and apply our first function
and you can see it completed
successfully and now all of our comps
have a start time code of 0 now we have
a text layer that is kind of hard to
read and say we had a hundred of these
in a layer and we didn't want to go
through and change each of them this
would be super useful we just click on
texture completed successfully and we've
changed it to our predefined values
which in this case is a font size of 68
a white fill and Times New Roman now
we'll move over to this comp to take a
look at the effects and scalar options
if we click on effects
it says completed successfully and now
if we go into our effect controls and
select each one of our layers you can
see there has been a black and white
effect applied to each of them and if we
click on the scalar completed
successfully
we've now scaled our layers up a hundred
and ten percent so let's go ahead and
get started in creating this useful
script that can help save you a ton of
time on bigger projects so I'll go ahead
and snap this over it here so I can have
them side-by-side and we can look at the
code as well as work on the UI inside of
After Effects and extend script before I
begin I should probably mention the
channel name change from Peregrine's
commando 99 to empty productions well
when I set up my YouTube in 2009
I kind of just thought it was for fun
and I put in a random name so now that
it's been a while and I want to be a bit
more professional I've changed it to NT
productions but hopefully that clears up
any confusion you had if you saw that
the channel name changed although it
haven't been posting videos as often
they will now be coming out weekly every
Wednesday so this script is less than 80
lines or so of code so let's get started
by creating a new JavaScript file inside
of extend script so to start off we're
going to want to setup our project and
comp variables so I'll just make a
variable called project and this is
equal to the application project and
that will just reference the project
that we currently have open whether it's
saved or not we'll also set up a comp
variable that will go to our project and
select the active item which will be the
selected comp in this case so one thing
to note is say that you have a bunch of
different layers will text you want to
click on each one of them individually
run the script then go to the next one
and click on it
run the script because when the script
initializes it sets the current active
item to the count variable of course you
could code this to change as you change
the compositions but we won't get into
that in this tutorial so next up we'll
want to setup our predefined values this
will be everything from text color to
text size to effect names and scale
percentages so the different variables
I'm going to use our font size fill
color stroke color font the effect match
name and the scale percent so for the
font size I'm just going to set it to
whatever after-effects usually has for
me which is 68 the fill color we're
going to make an array because we need
to have an RG and a B value inside of it
so I'll make the fill color completely
white by putting in 1 1 1 and same thing
with the stroke color it will take RGB
so we're going to put in values for that
and we'll make it black by putting 0 0 0
the font will take a sort of font names
similar to the effect match names and
after effects I'll link to a list of all
the fonts and effect match names in the
description but if we want safer
both times new roman'' we'll just put in
times new roman' psmt for the effect
match name we're just going to use a
black and white effect so Adobe black
and white and the scale percentage is
the value your original scale of each
layer is going to be multiplied by to
give you the new scale so let's go ahead
and put in 1.5 to make a more noticeable
scale difference so if you had a layer
with scale 100 it would then turn into
150 now we can go ahead and create our
UI to start off we always want to make a
window so we'll just call it main window
and we'll create a new window out of
that and this takes usually three
arguments the first of which is the type
of window which palette usually just
works fine
the second is the name and the third is
any x and y values but we'll go ahead
and put this as undefined so as we
create elements in the future it will go
ahead and automatically scale the window
properly we're also going to want to set
up the orientation of the main window by
doing main window orientation and we're
going to set this to column so that way
every group we add within the window
will go from top to bottom and what
we're going to do is make each group go
from left to right so this just allows
us to really organize our UI so now we
can start creating our groups and thus
our buttons so we'll first create a
group called a group one to do this
we'll just go ahead and go to main
window and we're going to be adding a
group with undefined
values there and we'll just call it
Group one we're also going to want to
set the orientation to row now we can
add our two buttons in the first group
the first of which is the time button so
create a time button variable and this
is going to be group one and we're going
to be adding a button again undefined
values there and we'll just call it t
zero because it's changing the time
codes to zero we'll also create our
second button in here which will be our
text button and this is going to be
inside of Group one and again we're
adding a button undefined values and
we'll just call it text tool now if we
want to actually preview this it's not
going to work right now because we have
to initialize the main window to do this
I'm going to start off by calling the
main window and we're going to Center it
first so when we run it it doesn't
appear in the value 0 0 which is up in
the corner here and sometimes you can't
even move it around if it spawns there
so then after that I'm going to go ahead
and show so if we go ahead and run this
make sure we're in the version of After
Effects we have open here play it you
can see we now have our window with our
first group and two buttons you may have
noticed when I showed off this in the
beginning whenever I highlighted a
button it would give you some
information about what it does so let's
go ahead and put in those values to do
that we're going to call our button here
time button and there's a thing called
help tip and this will display any
string that we put in here so let's just
go ahead and define what this does so
whenever you highlight the time button
it's going to say sets beginning time
code of every
comp to zero and same thing for the text
button we'll add a help tip and for this
we'll say set every text layer in the
selected comp predefined values all
right so now when we run it if we
highlight over one of these we're going
to get our help tip so now let's go
ahead and create our second group which
has our final two buttons we'll just
call it group two and it's going to be
inside the main window and again we're
adding a group undefined and we'll call
it group two and just like before we're
going to want to set the orientation to
row and now let's go ahead and add our
other two buttons the first of which is
our effects button and this will be
added to group two and we're adding a
button undefined and we'll call it a sex
go ahead and add our help tip here which
will say add and then we're actually
going to put in our variable for effect
match name here so they can see what
it's going to apply so
that to every layer on the selected comp
now let's go ahead and add our final
button which is our scale button and
again this is group two or adding a
button undefined
we'll just call this scale tool and of
course we'll add in our health tip which
will just be multiplies the scale of
every layer and we selected comp by and
we'll put in our scale percent so now
when we run it got all of our buttons
and all of our tooltips working properly
so now we just need to set up the
functionality of the script and
basically the meat main so the first
thing we're going to want to do is go
ahead and add our functionality again
we'll start off with our first button
which is our time button and whenever we
click it so on click we're going to
initialize this set of code in this
function we'll start off with an app top
begin on do group which will basically
make it easier for the user to undo any
changes that they make so if there's a
ton of text layers and they don't have
to hit ctrl-v hundred times this will
make it easy so we can also pass their
an argument to the begin under group
that says what the under group does
we'll just go ahead and say comp time
codes to zero but also want to close the
under group by doing app dot and undo
group and we don't need to pass any
arguments through there so now we're
going to set up a for loop so we can go
through each composition in the items
and make their time codes zero so we'll
make a for loop we'll just do jar I
equals one and that for I is less than
or equal to our project and the number
of items in it go ahead and increment I
and now for each one of the times it
goes through this we need to check if
it's a composition so put in an if
statement and this is going to check
whether or not the current item that it
goes through these right here is a
composition so we'll say if project item
I is an instance of
a comp item execute whatever codes
inside of here
so it's actually just one line of code
we need to set the time code to zero all
we have to do is grab the current item
which will be project item I and again
we just check to go to the comp item so
if it is it's going to execute this code
we'll set the display start time to zero
simple as that and I'll go ahead and add
an alert after it's done all this so
that we can make sure it's gone through
properly just say completed successfully
and now we can move on to our next
button
our next button in this case is our text
button so we'll call that and again
whenever we click it go ahead and go
through this function here just like
last time we're going to make a
beginning and end under group here call
it change all text layers and go ahead
and end the undo group so now within
this code just like before we're going
to set up a for loop this time I'm just
going to use a different variable for
fun we'll set equal to 1 and as E is
less than or equal to current
composition we selected the number of
layers which in this case people get
this comp here v1 this one would be 2 or
increment e and we need to now check if
the current selected layer is a text
layer to do this we're going to put in
an if statement and we're going to say
if comm player II is instance of a text
layer so that will check if the current
layer is a text layer and if it is we
want to go ahead and apply this code
inside of here so in the scripting guide
on about page 182 for the cs6 one we
have all of this here which helps us
figure out how we can apply different
types of text options to a text layer we
need to start off by creating a variable
called text prop or something like that
and this is going to be equal to current
layer so combat layer E and it's
property called source text
and inside of After Effects if you go to
a text layer bring it down to text here
you can see this is our source text
which contains all of our text
information like font size stroke colors
and font so then we're going to want to
set up a variable called text document
or something of that sort and this is
going to be equal to our text property
and its value and now we can go ahead
and set all of our text properties that
we predefined up here so go ahead and
start off with the text document font
size so text document dot font size and
we'll set this equal to our variable up
top called font size which is set to 68
then we'll go ahead and put in our fill
color set that equal to fill color up
there which is that an array we'll also
do our stroke color here and of course
our font text document clonk equal spots
which will refer to Times New Roman up
here and finally to set up all these
values we're going to put in text prop
set value and we'll set the text
property text document and again after
this whole thing is finished I'm going
to send out an alert to say did it
successfully so I'll just say text
changed successfully all right now let's
move on to our third button our third
button is our effects button and
whenever we click on it
I'm going to initialize this function
here start off with a nap top begin undo
group and we'll just say apply effects
to layers and we'll go ahead and undo
the group all right and just like before
we're going to want to go ahead and put
in a for loop and since we're applying
effects to layers we're going to want to
get the number of layers again I'll just
say bar Q equals 1 for Q is less than or
equal to comp number layers the number
of layers in a composition increment Q
plus 1 and this one is super simple to
just a one line of code you get the
effect applied we're going to grab the
current layer selected or comp layer Q
and we're going to access the effects
we're going to add a property or add an
effect in this case and we need to put
in the effect match name which we have
predefined up here as a sec match name
we'll just paste that in there and that
will apply black and white to every
layer recognized in the selected comp
again I'll add an alert at the end to
make sure it's functioning and now we
can move on to our last function our
last button is our scale button so again
we'll call that and we'll say on click
equals function and we'll set up our
begin and end under groups and app to
undo group and again just like usual
we're going to want to set up four loops
so we can access the number of layers in
the composition that we need to apply
this scaling to so we'll just set up
another variable here VAR R equals one
so R is less than or equal to comp
number of layers increment R plus one
and inside of here we're going to set up
a new variable called current scale or
cur scale and this is going to be equal
to our current layer selected socom
player R and we're going to want to
access the property called scale and get
its value and then we're going to want
to set up a variable called new scale
which is going to be our calculated
scale after we applied our multiplier so
we'll set this equal to cur scale times
our scale percent that we predefined up
here and then finally to set the new
scale on our layer we'll grab our layer
comp dot layer R and we're going to
access the property called scale again
and we're going to set its value to new
scale so it's going to grab the original
scale from our layer then it's going to
make a variable that is equal to our
original scale times our scale percent
that we predefined and then it's going
to set the scale value to our new scale
so if you finish it off we'll just add
our alert and now our code is pretty
much done of course there isn't any
validation or bug testing done in this
script so you will find problems when
trying to change the scale of say a
camera or applying effects to layers
that don't accept effects such as
cameras or no objects so there are a few
buggy things inside of it but let's go
ahead and see if it works
so I've gone ahead and reloaded the
project and I will select this first
composition that has the text and I'll
go ahead and run the script so now you
can see our time codes are not at zero
we'll click on the timecode zero button
and it completed successfully we now
have all the time at zero let's also go
ahead and change our text by using the
text tool and it looks like we're
getting an error here I think I know
what the problem is we need to get rid
of these brackets to run it again use
the text tool text change successfully
and now we've changed it to Times New
Roman 68 font size and white text now
again like I said this is kind of not a
fully tested script it hasn't been bug
tested or validated so if we try to
apply the effects to all of the layers
in this composition it's not going to
work because we have this camera here so
we'll go ahead and close the script and
we'll load up a composition that doesn't
have any types of layers that don't
accept effects or scale changes so like
this one and I'll rerun the script so
that way it changes the active comp to
this one and I'll start off by applying
my effects so now it's all black and
white we have black and white applied to
all the layers and now we can also scale
them up 150% which in this case doesn't
look too great but the concept is there
but yeah that is it for this video I
hope you guys enjoyed all of the links
to the code will be in the description
below including the match names for all
the effects and after-effects and a
bunch of the match names for fonts but
of course make sure you subscribe for
weekly videos coming out every Wednesday
most of them will be tutorials
occasionally there will be other content
like a music video or something like
that but I'm definitely getting back
into YouTube so that you guys can enjoy
more tutorials and there's not really a
lot of scripting tutorials out there but
again thanks for watching guys that's
how you create a batch processing script
for After Effects that has a lot of
functionality and can save you a lot of
time